``---
date: 2022-04-16
title: "2022-04-16"
status: 🌱🪴🌲🍇
words:
tags:
- journal
---

Why I didn't write today.

Sometimes it's just not my day when it comes to writing and yes if you haven't noticed I don't write my journals everyday not because I don't have anything to write but more like I was too busy to have my scream of conscious to be present. **I guess I wasn't present for about two weeks.** 

So what did I do and any thoughts on it.

I skimmed over The Art of War
It's complicated book to read at very least because depending on how you take the context, it's a quick read. On the other hand it's a deep read if you look into things. 

The Short
It really isn't much other than his warfare tactics and what should regard as the utmost important things and order of operations based on strategic significance. 36 types of strategies to be precise.  I won't list them all but the main highlight is information is the key to minimal loss in warfare. That is Tzun Tzu's philosophy, **loss aversion.**

The Long (well it's still short)
These are my takeaways, not the what book says.
Prepare for the Minimal Requirement
The world when the tactics were written and deployed is when warfare was done between lords of a single castle and most of the battle was between hodge podge of recruits who were mostly ill-equipped farmers and of course, poor training. Therefore the tactics were fundamental in terms of understanding and utilizing untrained soldiers. In a sense, treat everyone is untrained for the job and prepare for the minimal requirement, not the average.

It's all about resource management
There's extensive wisdom in Tzun Tsu regarding resource management and his sole focus is on minimal loss in all fronts. The famous "Know your enemy" is a party of a longer phrase regarding loss aversion; If you know yourself and the enemy, you will never suffer loss in a hundred battles. There are numerous aspects where they avoid certain terrains and positions to avoid loss of morale and food which majority of the tactics are based on. It is battle of attrition and understanding how to exhaust enemy's while preserving your own resources.

Inform then Disinform to Misinform
The biggest aspect of Tzun Tzu's philosophy is to know more than the others and keeping them in the dark as long as possible. First is to be informed about the situation through any means, preferably espionage and or observing the enemy from afar. Use disinformation to confuse and keep the opponents from knowing your true intentions and misinform them. The difference between disinform and misinform is one is intentional while the other may not be intentional but both results the same thing, wrong intel. 